What vulnerabilities does a rogue DHCP server expose users to?

- MITM attacks, DHCP Poisoning, Malware
- Denail of Service

= Why is it vital to ensure the security of an organization's DNS service? =

- If the DSN service is breached, it could lead to company leaks, user data leaks, man in the middle attacks, spoofing. All of which can lower the reputation of the company.
- Denial of service.

= True or false? The contents of the HOSTS file are irrelevant as long as a DSN service is properly configured. =

- False. HOSTS file is still usually checked first.

= What is DNS server cache poisoning? =

- When a DNS table is given false routing information that will usually lead users of the DNS to some sort of malware.

= What is DNS server cache poisoning? =

- When the server cache is overritten with malicious routing.

= True or false? DNSSEC depends on a chain of trust from the root servers down. =

- True

= What are the advantages of SASL over LDAPS? =

- SASL uses signing?? I really don't know.
- The Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) allows a choice of authentication providers and encryption (sealing)/integrity signing) mechanisms. By contrast, LDAPS uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encrypt traffic, but users still authenticate via simply binding. Also, SASL is the standards-based meands of configuring LDAP security.

= What steps should you take to secure and SNMPv2 Service? =

- You should ensure it is updated, use hard to guess names, never send the unencrypted string or something.
- Configure strong community names and use access control lists to restrict management operations to known hosts.

